[FLINK-35847] Add 1.20 release announcement (#751)
apache/flink-web: docs/content/posts/2024-07-15-release-1.20.0.md

---
authors:
- reswqa:
  name: "Weijie Guo"
  twitter: "WeijieGuo12"
- 1996fanrui:
  name: "Rui Fan"
  twitter: "1996fanrui"

date: "2024-07-15T08:00:00Z"
subtitle: ""
title: Announcing the Release of Apache Flink 1.20
aliases:
- /news/2024/07/15/release-1.20.0.html
---

The Apache Flink PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Flink 1.20.0. As usual, we are
looking at a packed release with a wide variety of improvements and new features. Overall, 142
people contributed to this release completing 13 FLIPs and 300+ issues. Thank you!

Let's dive into the highlights.

# Standing on the Eve of Apache Flink 2.0

The Flink community expects a 1.19 → 1.20 → 2.0 release sequence, with a normal 4-5 months release cycle.

> We expect to deliver the 2.0 release by the end of 2024, as long as not compromising the quality.

Reviewer: Flink 1.0 was released seven years ago. Since several months, the community is actively planning and taking steps towards the next major release. The new 1.20 release is planned to be the last minor release before Flink 2.0, which is anticipated by the end of 2024.

Start from Flink 1.19, the community has decided to officially deprecate multiple APIs that were approaching 
end of life for a while. In 1.20, we further sorted through all relevant APIs that might need to be replaced
or deprecated to clear the way for the 2.0 release:
- Configuration Improvements: As Flink moves toward 2.0, we have revisited all runtime & table/sql 

> configurations and identified several improvements to enhance user-friendliness and maintainability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configuration Improvements: As Flink moves towards version 2.0, we have revisited all runtime & Table API/SQL 
configuration options and identified several opportunities to enhance user-friendliness and maintainability.
```

- Deprecate the Legacy `SinkFunction` API: Since its introduction in Flink 1.12, the Unified Sink API 
has undergone extensive development and testing. Over multiple release cycles, the API has demonstrated

> stability and robustness, aligning with the criteria set forth in FLIP-197 for API stability graduation.

Reviewer: Add link to FLIP-197

> So we promote the Unified Sink API v2 to `@Public` and deprecate the legacy `SinkFunction`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, we promote the Unified Sink API v2 to `@Public` and deprecate the legacy `SinkFunction` interface.
```

> So we promote the Unified Sink API v2 to `@Public` and deprecate the legacy `SinkFunction`.

Reviewer: Add links to Sink API docs and SinkFunction docs?

It has been seven years since the Flink community's last major release, and we have great expectations for Flink 2.0.
We'll have a lot of killer features released in `2.x`, and some of them were released as MVP(minimum viable product) 

> in 1.20:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are planning to release several high-impact features in `2.x`. Some of them are already introduced in Flink 1.20 in MVP (minimum viable product) state and discussed in more detail below.
```

> - Introduce a New Materialized Table for Simplifying Data Pipelines: FLIP-435 designed to simplify the development of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Introduce a New Materialized Table for Simplifying Data Pipelines: [FLIP-435](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-435%3A+Introduce+a+New+Materialized+Table+for+Simplifying+Data+Pipelines) designed to simplify the development of
```

data processing pipelines. With dynamic table with uniform SQL statements and freshness, users can define batch
and streaming transformations to data in the same way, accelerate ETL pipeline development, and manage task scheduling

> automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
automatically. See below for more details on this exciting feature.
```

- Unified File Merging Mechanism for Checkpoints: The unified file merging mechanism for checkpointing is introduced to
Flink 1.20 as an MVP feature, which allows scattered small checkpoint files to be written into larger files, reducing
the number of file creations and file deletions and alleviating the pressure of file system metadata management raised by

> the file flooding problem during checkpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
These features are discussed in more detail below. I don't think we need to list them here.

# Flink SQL Improvements

> ## Introduce a New Materialized Table for Simplifying Data Pipelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduce Materialized Tables
```

> We have introduced the Materialized Table in Flink SQL, a new table type designed to simplify both batch and stream

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have introduced a *Materialized Table* abstraction in Flink SQL, a new table type designed to simplify both batch and stream
```

> data pipelines while providing a consistent development experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We introduced Materialized Tables in Flink SQL, a new table type designed to simplify both batch and stream
data pipelines while providing a consistent development experience.
```

By specifying data freshness and query at creation, the engine automatically derives the schema and creates a data 

> refresh pipeline to maintain the specified freshness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Materialized tables are defined with a query and a data freshness specification. The engine automatically derives the schema and creates a refresh pipeline to maintain the query result with the requested freshness.
```

Here is an example to create a materialized table that is constantly refreshed with a data freshness of `30` seconds.

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED TABLE continuous_users_shops
PARTITIONED BY (ds)
WITH (
  'format' = 'debezium-json',
  'sink.rolling-policy.rollover-interval' = '10s',
  'sink.rolling-policy.check-interval' = '10s'
)
FRESHNESS = INTERVAL '30' SECOND
AS SELECT
  user_id,
  ds,
  SUM (payment_amount_cents) AS payed_buy_fee_sum,
  SUM (1) AS PV
FROM (
  SELECT user_id, order_created_at AS ds, payment_amount_cents
    FROM json_source
  ) AS tmp
GROUP BY user_id, ds;
```

**More Information**
* [FLINK-35187](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35187)
* [FLIP-435](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-435%3A+Introduce+a+New+Materialized+Table+for+Simplifying+Data+Pipelines)
* [Materialized Table Overview](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/materialized-table/overview/)

## Introduce Catalog-Related Syntax

As the application scenario of `Catalog` expands, which widely applied in services such as JDBC/Hive/Paimon,

> `Catalog` plays an increasingly crucial role in Flink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the growing adoption of Flink SQL, implementations of Flink's `Catalog` interface play an increasingly important role. Today, Flink features a JDBC and a Hive catalog implementation and other open source projects such as Apache Paimon integrate with this interface as well.
```
Add a link to the Catalog interface documentation?

Now in Flink 1.20, you can use the `DQL` syntax to obtain detailed metadata from existing catalogs, and the

> `DDL` syntax to modify metadata such as properties or comment in the specified catalog.

Reviewer 2: What do you think about adding a syntax example here as well?

Author: Make sense, I have added a example.

**More Information**
* [FLINK-34914](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-34914)

> * [FLIP-436](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-436%3A+Introduce+Catalog-related+Syntax)

Reviewer: Is there documentation that can be linked here?

Author: It has no dedicated documentation and is spread over several documents. I don't want to add a bunch of links here.

## Add DISTRIBUTED BY Clause

> Many SQL vendors expose the concepts of `Partitioning`, `Bucketing`, and `Clustering`. We propose to introduce

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many SQL engines expose the concepts of `Partitioning`, `Bucketing`, or `Clustering`. We propose to introduce
```

the concept of `Bucketing` to Flink.

Buckets enable load balancing in an external storage system by splitting data into disjoint subsets. It depends
heavily on the semantics of the underlying connector. However, a user can influence the bucketing behavior by
specifying the number of buckets, the bucketing algorithm, and (if the algorithm allows it) the columns which 
are used for target bucket calculation. All bucketing components (i.e. bucket number, distribution algorithm, bucket key columns)
are optional from a SQL syntax perspective.

Take the following SQL statements as an example:

```sql
-- declares a hash function on a fixed number of 4 buckets (i.e. HASH(uid) % 4 = target bucket).
CREATE TABLE MyTable (uid BIGINT, name STRING) DISTRIBUTED BY HASH(uid) INTO 4 BUCKETS;

-- leaves the selection of an algorithm up to the connector.
CREATE TABLE MyTable (uid BIGINT, name STRING) DISTRIBUTED BY (uid) INTO 4 BUCKETS;

> -- leaves the number of buckets up  to the connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-- leaves the number of buckets up to the connector.
```

CREATE TABLE MyTable (uid BIGINT, name STRING) DISTRIBUTED BY (uid);

-- only defines the number of buckets.
CREATE TABLE MyTable (uid BIGINT, name STRING) DISTRIBUTED INTO 4 BUCKETS;
```

**More Information**
* [FLINK-33494](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-33494)

> * [FLIP-376](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-376%3A+Add+DISTRIBUTED+BY+clause)

Reviewer: Is there documentation that can be linked here?

# State & Checkpoint Improvements

## Unified File Merging Mechanism for Checkpoints

The unified file merging mechanism for checkpointing is introduced to Flink 1.20 as an MVP ("minimum viable product") feature,
which allows scattered small checkpoint files to be written into larger files, reducing the number of file creations
and file deletions and alleviating the pressure of file system metadata management raised by the file flooding problem

> during checkpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unified file merging mechanism for checkpointing is introduced to Flink 1.20 as an MVP ("minimum viable product") feature.
It combines multiple small checkpoint files to into fewer larger files, which reduces the number of file creation
and file deletion operations and alleviates the pressure of file system metadata management during checkpoints.
```

The mechanism can be enabled by setting `execution.checkpointing.file-merging.enabled` to `true`. For more advanced options

> and principle behind this feature, please refer to the document of Checkpointing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and principle behind this feature, please refer to the Checkpointing documentation.
```

> and principle behind this feature, please refer to the document of Checkpointing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and principle behind this feature, please refer to the Checkpointing documentation.
```

**More Information**
* [FLINK-33494](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-32070)
* [FLIP-306](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-306%3A+Unified+File+Merging+Mechanism+for+Checkpoints)
* [Documentation](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/datastream/fault-tolerance/checkpointing/#unify-file-merging-mechanism-for-checkpoints-experimental)

> ## Manually Compact Small SST Files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Compaction of Small SST Files
```

> In some cases, the number of files produced by RocksDB state backend grows indefinitely.This might cause task state

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some cases, the number of files produced by RocksDB state backend grows indefinitely. This might cause task state
```

info (TDD and checkpoint ACK) to exceed RPC message size and fail recovery/checkpoint in addition to having lots of small files.

> In Flink 1.20, you can manually merge such files in the background using RocksDB API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, the number of files produced by the RocksDB state backend grows indefinitely. In addition to the overhead caused by many small files, this behavior can cause the task state
info to exceed the RPC message size limit and therefore lead to recovery or checkpoint failures.

From release 1.20 on, Flink can merge such files in the background using the RocksDB API.
```

**More Information**
* [FLINK-26050](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-26050)

## Reorganizing all State & Checkpointing Configuration Options

In Flink 1.20, all the options about state and checkpointing are reorganized and categorized by prefixes as listed below:

> 1. `execution.checkpointing`: all configurations associated with checkpointing and savepoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `execution.checkpointing`: all configuration options associated with checkpointing and savepoints.
```

> 1. `execution.checkpointing`: all configurations associated with checkpointing and savepoint.
> 2. `execution.state-recovery`: all configurations pertinent to state recovery.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. `execution.checkpointing.*`: all configurations associated with checkpointing and savepoint.
2. `execution.state-recovery.*`: all configurations pertinent to state recovery.
```

> 2. `execution.state-recovery`: all configurations pertinent to state recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `execution.state-recovery`: all configurations options related to state recovery.
```

3. `state.*`: all configurations related to the state accessing.
   a. `state.backend.*`: specific options for individual state backends, such as RocksDB.

>    b. `state.changelog`: configurations for the changelog, as outlined in FLIP-158, including the options for the "Durable Short-term Log" (DSTL).
>    c. `state.latency-track`: configurations related to the latency tracking of state access.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   b. `state.changelog.*`: configurations for the changelog, as outlined in FLIP-158, including the options for the "Durable Short-term Log" (DSTL).
   c. `state.latency-track.*`: configurations related to the latency tracking of state access.
```

How about adding `.*` to all types? Keep the style the same for all 3 types.

Reviewer 4: Makes sense. Thanks for pointing this out

At the meantime, all the original options scattered everywhere are annotated as `@Deprecated`. For the detailed list of options,
please refer to the documents below.

**More Information**
* [Checkpointing](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#checkpointing)
* [Recovery](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#recovery)
* [State Backend](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#state-backends)

> * [State Changelog](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#state-backends)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [State Changelog](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#state-changelog-options)
```

This link seems wrong.

> * [Latency-track](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#state-backends)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Latency-track](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#state-latency-tracking-options)
```

This allows the connector to dynamically determine parallelism based on the actual partitions with dynamic partition pruning. 
Additionally, we have introduced a new configuration option - `table.exec.hive.infer-source-parallelism.mode` to enable users
to choose between static and dynamic inference modes for source parallelism.

It should be noted that in Flink 1.20, the previous configuration option `table.exec.hive.infer-source-parallelism` has been 
marked as deprecated, but it will continue to serve as a switch for automatic parallelism inference until it is fully phased out.

**More Information**
* [FLINK-35293](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35293)
* [FLIP-445](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-445%3A+Support+dynamic+parallelism+inference+for+HiveSource)

# DataStream API Improvements

The `DataSet` API has been already formally deprecated and will be removed in the Flink 2.0 version. 
Flink users are recommended to migrate from the `DataSet` API to the `DataStream` API, `Table` API and `SQL` for their data 
processing requirements.

## Support Full Partition Processing on DataStream API

> But before 1.20, `DataStream` API does not directly support aggregations on non-keyed streams (subtask-scope aggregations). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before 1.20, `DataStream` API did not directly support aggregations on non-keyed streams (subtask-scope aggregations). 
```

In order to do so, we need to first assign the subtask id to the records, then turn the stream into a keyed stream. 
This obviously incurs additional overhead, so we support `FullPartitionWindow` API in Flink 1.20.

Suppose we want to count the number of records in each partition and output to a downstream operator. This can be done as follows:

```java
inputStream.fullWindowPartition()
                .mapPartition(
         new MapPartitionFunction<Record, Long>() {
                    @Override
                    public void mapPartition(
                            Iterable<Record> values, Collector<Long> out)
                            throws Exception {
                        long counter = 0;

>                         for (T value : values) {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                        for (Record value : values) {
```

In preparation for the release of Flink 2.0 later this year, the community has decided to officially deprecate
multiple configuration options that were approaching end of life for a while.

The following configurations have been deprecated as we are phasing out the hash-based blocking shuffle:
- `taskmanager.network.sort-shuffle.min-parallelism`
- `taskmanager.network.blocking-shuffle.type`

The following configurations have been deprecated as we are phasing out the legacy hybrid shuffle:
- `taskmanager.network.hybrid-shuffle.spill-index-region-group-size`
- `taskmanager.network.hybrid-shuffle.num-retained-in-memory-regions-max`
- `taskmanager.network.hybrid-shuffle.enable-new-mode`

The following configurations have been deprecated to simply the configuration of network buffers:
- `taskmanager.network.memory.buffers-per-channel`
- `taskmanager.network.memory.floating-buffers-per-gate`
- `taskmanager.network.memory.max-buffers-per-channel`
- `taskmanager.network.memory.max-overdraft-buffers-per-gate`
- `taskmanager.network.memory.exclusive-buffers-request-timeout-ms` (Please use `taskmanager.network.memory.buffers-request-timeout` instead.)

> The configuration taskmanager.network.batch-shuffle.compression.enabled has been deprecated. Please set taskmanager.network.compression.codecto NONE to disable compression.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The configuration `taskmanager.network.batch-shuffle.compression.enabled` has been deprecated. Please set `taskmanager.network.compression.codec` to `NONE` to disable compression.
```

The `codecto` shouldn't  be combined.

to `org.apache.flink.table.api.config.OptimizerConfigOptions` and promoted to `@PublicEvolving`

- `table.optimizer.union-all-as-breakpoint-enabled`
- `table.optimizer.reuse-optimize-block-with-digest-enabled`

### Aggregate Optimizer Option
`table.optimizer.incremental-agg-enabled` has been moved from `org.apache.flink.table.planner.plan.rules.physical.stream.IncrementalAggregateRule`
to `org.apache.flink.table.api.config.OptimizerConfigOptions` and promoted to `@PublicEvolving`

**More Information**
* [FLINK-35461](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35461)
* [FLINK-35473](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35473)

# Upgrade Notes

The Flink community tries to ensure that upgrades are as seamless as possible.
However, certain changes may require users to make adjustments to certain parts
of the program when upgrading to version 1.20. Please refer to the
[release notes](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/release-notes/flink-1.20/)
for a comprehensive list of adjustments to make and issues to check during the
upgrading process.

# List of Contributors

The Apache Flink community would like to express gratitude to all the

> contributors who made this release possible:

Reviewer 2: Will this be rendered as a list (a newline after each name?) In the past, this was just one block of names: https://flink.apache.org/2024/03/18/announcing-the-release-of-apache-flink-1.19/#list-of-contributors

Author: Yes, I think all of those will be rendered in one block.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/98c159cd-16d7-42e1-8116-7c06c057a880)

DamonXue,
Danny Cranmer,
David Christle,
David Moravek,
David Schlosnagle,
Dawid Wysakowicz,
Dian Fu,
Dmitriy Linevich,
Elphas Toringepi,
Emre Kartoglu,
Fang Yong,
Feng Jin,
Ferenc Csaky,
Frank Yin,
Gabor Somogyi,
Gyula Fora,
HCTommy,
Hangxiang Yu,
Hanyu Zheng,
Hao Li,
Hong Liang Teoh,
Hong Teoh,
HuangXingBo,
Jacky Lau,
James Hughes,
Jane Chan,
Jeyhun Karimov,
Jiabao Sun,
Jim Hughes,
Jing Ge,
Jinzhong Li,
JunRuiLee,
Juntao Hu,
JustinLee,
Kartikey Pant,
Kumar Mallikarjuna,
Leonard Xu,
Lorenzo Affetti,
Luke Chen,
Martijn Visser,
Mason Chen,
Matthias Pohl,
Mingliang Liu,
Panagiotis Garefalakis,
Peter Huang,
Peter Vary,
Piotr Nowojski,
Puneet Duggal,
Qinghui Xu,
Qingsheng Ren,
Ravi Dutt Singh,
Robert Metzger,
Robert Young,
Roc Marshal,
Roman,
Roman Boyko,
Roman Khachatryan,
Ron,
Rui Fan,
Ryan Skraba,
Samrat,
Sergey Nuyanzin,
Shilun Fan,
Stefan Richter,
SuDewei,
Timo Walther,
Ufuk Celebi,
Vincent Woo,
Wang FeiFan,
Weijie Guo,
Wencong Liu,
Wouter Zorgdrager,
Xiangyu Feng,
Xintong Song,
Xuyang,
Yanfei Lei,
Yangze Guo,
Yu Chen,
Yubin Li,
Yuepeng Pan,
Yun Tang,
Yuxin Tan,
Zakelly,
Zhanghao Chen,
Zhen Wang,
Zhenqiu Huang,
Zhu Zhu,
Zmm,
ammar-master,
anupamaggarwal,
bvarghese1,

> caicancai,
> cancaicai,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
caicancai,
```

These 2 are same contributor.

caodizhou,

> chenyu,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

I think it's same to `Yu Chen`

chenzihao,
drymatini,
dsaisharath,
eason.qin,
elon-X,
fengli,

> fredia,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

It's same to `Yanfei Lei`

gongzhongqiang,
hejufang,
jectpro7,
jiangxin,

> jingge,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

It's same to `Jing Ge`

liming.1018,
lincoln lee,
liuyongvs,
lxliyou001,
oleksandr.nitavskyi,
plugatarev,
rmoff, 
slfan1989,
spoon-lz,
sunxia,
sxnan,
sychen,

> wangfeifan,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

It's same to `Wang FeiFan`

wforget,
xiaogang,
xingbo,

> xuyang,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

It's same to `Xuyang`

yebukong,

> yhx,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

It's same to `Hangxiang Yu`

# State & Checkpoint Improvements

## Unified File Merging Mechanism for Checkpoints

The unified file merging mechanism for checkpointing is introduced to Flink 1.20 as an MVP ("minimum viable product") feature,
which allows scattered small checkpoint files to be written into larger files, reducing the number of file creations
and file deletions and alleviating the pressure of file system metadata management raised by the file flooding problem
during checkpoints.

The mechanism can be enabled by setting `execution.checkpointing.file-merging.enabled` to `true`. For more advanced options
and principle behind this feature, please refer to the Checkpointing documentation.

**More Information**
* [FLINK-33494](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-32070)
* [FLIP-306](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-306%3A+Unified+File+Merging+Mechanism+for+Checkpoints)
* [Documentation](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/datastream/fault-tolerance/checkpointing/#unify-file-merging-mechanism-for-checkpoints-experimental)

## Manually Compact Small SST Files

> In some cases, the number of files produced by RocksDB state backend grows indefinitely. This might cause task state
> info (TDD and checkpoint ACK) to exceed RPC message size and fail recovery/checkpoint in addition to having lots of small files.
> 
> In Flink 1.20, you can manually merge such files in the background using RocksDB API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, the number of files produced by RocksDB state backend grows indefinitely.  In addition to the overhead of having lots of small files, this might cause the task state info to exceed RPC message size limit and result in recovery or checkpoint failures. 
Flink 1.20 can merge small files in the background using the RocksDB API.
```

**More Information**
* [FLINK-26050](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-26050)

## Reorganizing all State & Checkpointing Configuration Options

In Flink 1.20, all the options about state and checkpointing are reorganized and categorized by prefixes as listed below:

> 1. `execution.checkpointing.*`: all configurations associated with checkpointing and savepoint.
> 2. `execution.state-recovery.*`: all configurations pertinent to state recovery.
> 3. `state.*`: all configurations related to the state accessing.
>    a. `state.backend.*`: specific options for individual state backends, such as RocksDB.
>    b. `state.changelog.*`: configurations for the changelog, as outlined in FLIP-158, including the options for the "Durable Short-term Log" (DSTL).
>    c. `state.latency-track.*`: configurations related to the latency tracking of state access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `execution.checkpointing.*`: all configuration options associated with checkpointing and savepoints.
2. `execution.state-recovery.*`: all configuration options related to state recovery.
3. `state.*`: all configuration options related to the state accessing.
   a. `state.backend.*`: configuration options for individual state backends, such as RocksDB.
   b. `state.changelog.*`: configuration options for the state changelog, as outlined in FLIP-158, including the options for the "Durable Short-term Log" (DSTL).
   c. `state.latency-track.*`: configuration options related to the latency tracking of state access.
```

* [State Backend](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#state-backends)
* [State Changelog](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#state-changelog-options)
* [Latency-track](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#state-latency-tracking-options)

# Batch Processing Improvements

## Support Job Recovery from JobMaster Failures for Batch Jobs

In Flink 1.20, we introduced a batch job recovery mechanism to enable batch jobs to recover as much progress as possible 
after a `JobMaster` failover, avoiding the need to rerun tasks that have already been finished.

**More Information**
* [FLINK-33892](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-33892)
* [FLIP-383](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-383%3A+Support+Job+Recovery+from+JobMaster+Failures+for+Batch+Jobs)
* [Documentation](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/ops/batch/recovery_from_job_master_failure/)

## Support Dynamic Parallelism Inference for HiveSource

> In Flink 1.20, we have introduced support for dynamic source parallelism inference in batch jobs for the `Hive` source connector. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Flink 1.20, we added support for dynamic source parallelism inference in batch jobs for the `Hive` source connector. 
```

This allows the connector to dynamically determine parallelism based on the actual partitions with dynamic partition pruning. 
Additionally, we have introduced a new configuration option - `table.exec.hive.infer-source-parallelism.mode` to enable users
to choose between static and dynamic inference modes for source parallelism.

It should be noted that in Flink 1.20, the previous configuration option `table.exec.hive.infer-source-parallelism` has been 
marked as deprecated, but it will continue to serve as a switch for automatic parallelism inference until it is fully phased out.

**More Information**
* [FLINK-35293](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35293)
* [FLIP-445](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-445%3A+Support+dynamic+parallelism+inference+for+HiveSource)

# DataStream API Improvements

The `DataSet` API has been already formally deprecated and will be removed in the Flink 2.0 version. 
Flink users are recommended to migrate from the `DataSet` API to the `DataStream` API, `Table` API and `SQL` for their data 
processing requirements.

## Support Full Partition Processing on DataStream API

> Before 1.20, `DataStream` API did not directly support aggregations on non-keyed streams (subtask-scope aggregations). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before 1.20, the `DataStream` API did not directly support aggregations on non-keyed streams (subtask-scope aggregations). 
```

> In order to do so, we need to first assign the subtask id to the records, then turn the stream into a keyed stream. 
> This obviously incurs additional overhead, so we support `FullPartitionWindow` API in Flink 1.20.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a workaround, users could assign the subtask id to the records before turning the stream into a keyed stream which incured additional overhead.
Flink 1.20 adds built-in support for these operations via the `FullPartitionWindow` API.
```

Suppose we want to count the number of records in each partition and output to a downstream operator. This can be done as follows:

```java
inputStream.fullWindowPartition()
                .mapPartition(
         new MapPartitionFunction<Record, Long>() {
                    @Override
                    public void mapPartition(
                            Iterable<Record> values, Collector<Long> out)
                            throws Exception {
                        long counter = 0;
                        for (Record value : values) {
                            counter++;
                        }
                        out.collect(counter));
                    }
          })
```

**More Information**
* [FLINK-34543](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-34543)

> * [FLIP-380](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-380%3A+Support+Full+Partition+Processing+On+Non-keyed+DataStream)

Reviewer: Can we link the documentation here?

# Important Configuration Changes for Flink 2.0

As Apache Flink progresses to version 2.0, several configuration options are being changed or deprecated to 

> improve user-friendliness and maintainability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
improve ease-of-use and maintainability.
```

## Using Proper Type for Configuration Options

> Some Configuration options like `client.heartbeat.interval` has been updated to the `Duration` type in a backward-compatible manner. 
> The full list is available in [FLINK-35359](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35359).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some configuration options like `client.heartbeat.interval` have been updated to the `Duration` type in a backward-compatible manner. 
The full list is available in [FLINK-35359](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35359).
```

> The following configurations have been updated to the `Enum` type in a backward-compatible manner:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration options have been updated to the `Enum` type in a backward-compatible manner:
```

- `taskmanager.network.compression.codec`
- `table.optimizer.agg-phase-strategy`

> The following configurations have been updated to the `Int` type in a backward-compatible manner:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration options have been updated to the `Int` type in a backward-compatible manner:
```

- `yarn.application-attempts`

**More Information**
* [FLINK-35359](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35359)

## Deprecate Multiple Configuration Options

> In preparation for the release of Flink 2.0 later this year, the community has decided to officially deprecate
> multiple configuration options that were approaching end of life for a while.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In preparation for the release of Flink 2.0, the community has decided to officially deprecate
multiple configuration options that were approaching end of life for a while.
```

> The following configurations have been deprecated as we are phasing out the hash-based blocking shuffle:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration options have been deprecated as we are phasing out the hash-based blocking shuffle:
```

- `taskmanager.network.sort-shuffle.min-parallelism`
- `taskmanager.network.blocking-shuffle.type`

> The following configurations have been deprecated as we are phasing out the legacy hybrid shuffle:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration options have been deprecated as we are phasing out the legacy hybrid shuffle:
```

- `taskmanager.network.hybrid-shuffle.spill-index-region-group-size`
- `taskmanager.network.hybrid-shuffle.num-retained-in-memory-regions-max`
- `taskmanager.network.hybrid-shuffle.enable-new-mode`

> The following configurations have been deprecated to simply the configuration of network buffers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration options have been deprecated to simply the configuration of network buffers:
```

- `taskmanager.network.memory.buffers-per-channel`
- `taskmanager.network.memory.floating-buffers-per-gate`
- `taskmanager.network.memory.max-buffers-per-channel`
- `taskmanager.network.memory.max-overdraft-buffers-per-gate`
- `taskmanager.network.memory.exclusive-buffers-request-timeout-ms` (Please use `taskmanager.network.memory.buffers-request-timeout` instead.)

> The configuration `taskmanager.network.batch-shuffle.compression.enabled` has been deprecated. Please set `taskmanager.network.compression.codec` to `NONE` to disable compression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration option `taskmanager.network.batch-shuffle.compression.enabled` has been deprecated. Please set `taskmanager.network.compression.codec` to `NONE` to disable compression.
```

> The following Netty-related configurations are no longer recommended for use and have been deprecated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Netty-related configuration options are no longer recommended for use and have been deprecated:
```

- `taskmanager.network.netty.num-arenas`
- `taskmanager.network.netty.server.numThreads`
- `taskmanager.network.netty.client.numThreads`
- `taskmanager.network.netty.server.backlog`
- `taskmanager.network.netty.sendReceiveBufferSize`
- `taskmanager.network.netty.transport`

> The following configurations are unnecessary and have been deprecated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration options are unnecessary and have been deprecated:
```

## Introduce Catalog-Related Syntax

With the growing adoption of Flink SQL, implementations of Flink's `Catalog` interface play an increasingly important role. Today, Flink features a JDBC and a Hive catalog implementation and other open source projects such as Apache Paimon integrate with this interface as well.

Now in Flink 1.20, you can use the `DQL` syntax to obtain detailed metadata from existing catalogs, and the
`DDL` syntax to modify metadata such as properties or comment in the specified catalog.

```sql
Flink SQL> CREATE CATALOG `cat` WITH ('type'='generic_in_memory', 'default-database'='db');
[INFO] Execute statement succeeded.

Flink SQL> SHOW CREATE CATALOG `cat`;
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                                      result |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CREATE CATALOG `cat` WITH (
  'default-database' = 'db',
  'type' = 'generic_in_memory'

> )

Reviewer 5: could you check the table format? Looks like we missed `|` arounding the content.

Author: I just copied it from the output of `sql-client` on my own laptop. 🤔 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3a7eef4b-7aab-4400-abb0-795cbf8b0655)

Author: And it seems this align with the code shown in the [FLIP](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-436%3A+Introduce+Catalog-related+Syntax)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1b2a97f8-b20a-454b-975e-0a66faad5826)

Reviewer 5: Looks strange but not related to this PR, LGTM

are optional in the SQL syntax.

Take the following SQL statements as an example:

```sql
-- declares a hash function on a fixed number of 4 buckets (i.e. HASH(uid) % 4 = target bucket).
CREATE TABLE MyTable (uid BIGINT, name STRING) DISTRIBUTED BY HASH(uid) INTO 4 BUCKETS;

-- leaves the selection of an algorithm up to the connector.
CREATE TABLE MyTable (uid BIGINT, name STRING) DISTRIBUTED BY (uid) INTO 4 BUCKETS;

-- leaves the number of buckets up to the connector.
CREATE TABLE MyTable (uid BIGINT, name STRING) DISTRIBUTED BY (uid);

-- only defines the number of buckets.
CREATE TABLE MyTable (uid BIGINT, name STRING) DISTRIBUTED INTO 4 BUCKETS;
```

**More Information**
* [FLINK-33494](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-33494)
* [FLIP-376](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/loxEE)
* [Documentation](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/sql/create/#distributed)

# State & Checkpoint Improvements

## Unified File Merging Mechanism for Checkpoints

The unified file merging mechanism for checkpointing is introduced to Flink 1.20 as an MVP ("minimum viable product") feature.

> It combines multiple small checkpoint files to into fewer larger files, which reduces the number of file creation

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
It combines multiple small checkpoint files into fewer larger files, which reduces the number of file creation
```

---
authors:
- reswqa:
  name: "Weijie Guo"
  twitter: "WeijieGuo12"
- 1996fanrui:
  name: "Rui Fan"
  twitter: "1996fanrui"

date: "2024-07-15T08:00:00Z"
subtitle: ""
title: Announcing the Release of Apache Flink 1.20
aliases:
- /news/2024/07/15/release-1.20.0.html
---

The Apache Flink PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Flink 1.20.0. As usual, we are
looking at a packed release with a wide variety of improvements and new features. Overall, 142
people contributed to this release completing 13 FLIPs and 300+ issues. Thank you!

Let's dive into the highlights.

# Standing on the Eve of Apache Flink 2.0

Flink 1.0 was released seven years ago. Since several months, the community is actively planning and taking steps towards
the next major release. The new 1.20 release is planned to be the last minor release before Flink 2.0, which is anticipated by the end of 2024.

> Start from Flink 1.19, the community has decided to officially deprecate multiple APIs that were approaching 

Reviewer 7: this sentence does not read well. How about something like "At Flink 1.19, the community decided to deprecate multiple APIs in preparation for Flink version 2."

end of life for a while. In 1.20, we further sorted through all relevant APIs that might need to be replaced
or deprecated to clear the way for the 2.0 release:
- Configuration Improvements: As Flink moves towards version 2.0, we have revisited all runtime & Table API/SQL 
configuration options and identified several opportunities to enhance user-friendliness and maintainability.
- Deprecate the Legacy [SinkFunction](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/api/java/org/apache/flink/streaming/api/functions/sink/SinkFunction.html) API: Since its introduction in Flink 1.12, the [Unified Sink API](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/api/java/org/apache/flink/api/connector/sink2/Sink.html)
has undergone extensive development and testing. Over multiple release cycles, the API has demonstrated

> stability and robustness, aligning with the criteria set forth in [FLIP-197](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-197%3A+API+stability+graduation+process) for API stability graduation.

Reviewer 4: I'd suggest providing the link from the Share button, instead of the link copied from the browser URL bar, which may be broken when title is renamed.

Therefore, we promote the Unified Sink API v2 to `@Public` and deprecate the legacy `SinkFunction` interface.

It has been seven years since the Flink community's last major release, and we have great expectations for Flink 2.0.

> We are planning to release several high-impact features in `2.x`. Some of them are already introduced in Flink 1.20 in MVP (minimum viable product) state and discussed in more detail below.

Reviewer 7: NIT: I wonder whether MVP terminology is worth using here - as this is not a product. Maybe "Some of them already have minimal implementations in Flink 1.20."

Reviewer 8: This aligns with the feature radar in the project roadmap.
https://flink.apache.org/what-is-flink/roadmap/

- Introduce a New Materialized Table for Simplifying Data Pipelines: [FLIP-435](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-435%3A+Introduce+a+New+Materialized+Table+for+Simplifying+Data+Pipelines) designed to simplify the development of

> data processing pipelines. With dynamic table with uniform SQL statements and freshness, users can define batch

Reviewer 7: NIT: I think it would read better to say:
With dynamic table with SQL statements -> With dynamic tables, uniform SQL statements

and streaming transformations to data in the same way, accelerate ETL pipeline development, and manage task scheduling
automatically. See below for more details on this exciting feature.
- Unified File Merging Mechanism for Checkpoints: The unified file merging mechanism for checkpointing is introduced to
Flink 1.20 as an MVP feature, which allows scattered small checkpoint files to be written into larger files, reducing
the number of file creations and file deletions and alleviating the pressure of file system metadata management raised by

> the file flooding problem during checkpoints.

Reviewer 7: maybe explain in brackets what you mean by the file flooding problem. I am curious whether the symptom performance, management issues or integrity?

Author: cc @Zakelly

Reviewer 4: I'll elaborate more in brackets. And the FLIP link might help https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/DwsNDw

> the file flooding problem during checkpoints.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the file flooding problem (large number of small files are created) during checkpoints. For the whole story and more details, please refer to [FLIP-306](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/DwsNDw).
```

# Flink SQL Improvements

## Introduce Materialized Tables

> We introduced Materialized Tables abstraction in Flink SQL, a new table type designed to simplify both batch and stream

Reviewer 7: "We introduced Materialized Tables abstraction",  I suggest this say explicitly 1.20 or when ever it was introduced.

> data pipelines while providing a consistent development experience.

Reviewer 7: comma after pipelines

> Materialized tables are defined with a query and a data freshness specification. The engine automatically derives the table

Reviewer 7: I was little confused by the phrasing "Flink streaming or batch jobs" . I assume that the Materialized table is a new batch job that can be specified in SQL, it uses the same SQL syntax as stream jobs, but allows you to define when your data is retrieved from you data sources, reducing the number of calls to the data sources. If I have understood this correctly 0 coudl we use these sort of words to be more explicit as to what we are introducing? We could mention how it can be beneficial compared to a view as well.

Author: Sorry, I am not familiar with this feature. I wrote the content according to the JIRA release note, maybe @lsyldliu  can answer your question.

Reviewer 8: @davidradl Materialized tables are not always batch jobs. Users define how the table should be derived / calculated from other source tables with SQL, and an additional freshness. Flink will automatically decide how the job should be executed (in streaming or batch mode) based on the freshness.

|                                                                                          result |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CREATE CATALOG `cat` WITH (
  'default-database' = 'new-db',
  'type' = 'generic_in_memory'
)
|
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

**More Information**
* [FLINK-34914](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-34914)
* [FLIP-436](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-436%3A+Introduce+Catalog-related+Syntax)

## Add DISTRIBUTED BY Clause

Many SQL engines expose the concepts of `Partitioning`, `Bucketing`, or `Clustering`. We propose to introduce
the concept of `Bucketing` to Flink.

Buckets enable load balancing in an external storage system by splitting data into disjoint subsets. It depends
heavily on the semantics of the underlying connector. However, a user can influence the bucketing behavior by
specifying the number of buckets, the bucketing algorithm, and (if the algorithm allows it) the columns which 

> are used for target bucket calculation. All bucketing components (i.e. bucket number, distribution algorithm, bucket key columns)

Reviewer 7: we have used bucketting algorithm and distribution algorithm, I think they are the same name , I suggest only using one of these names for the algorithm.

> are optional from a SQL syntax perspective.

Reviewer 7: NIT: are optional from a SQL syntax perspective. - >are optional in the SQL syntax.

CREATE TABLE MyTable (uid BIGINT, name STRING) DISTRIBUTED BY (uid) INTO 4 BUCKETS;

-- leaves the number of buckets up to the connector.
CREATE TABLE MyTable (uid BIGINT, name STRING) DISTRIBUTED BY (uid);

-- only defines the number of buckets.
CREATE TABLE MyTable (uid BIGINT, name STRING) DISTRIBUTED INTO 4 BUCKETS;
```

**More Information**
* [FLINK-33494](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-33494)
* [FLIP-376](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-376%3A+Add+DISTRIBUTED+BY+clause)
* [Documentation](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/sql/create/#distributed)

# State & Checkpoint Improvements

## Unified File Merging Mechanism for Checkpoints

The unified file merging mechanism for checkpointing is introduced to Flink 1.20 as an MVP ("minimum viable product") feature.
It combines multiple small checkpoint files to into fewer larger files, which reduces the number of file creation
and file deletion operations and alleviates the pressure of file system metadata management during checkpoints.

The mechanism can be enabled by setting `execution.checkpointing.file-merging.enabled` to `true`. For more advanced options

> and principle behind this feature, please refer to the Checkpointing documentation.

Reviewer 7: NIT and principle -> and the principles

**More Information**
* [FLINK-33494](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-32070)
* [FLIP-306](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-306%3A+Unified+File+Merging+Mechanism+for+Checkpoints)
* [Documentation](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/datastream/fault-tolerance/checkpointing/#unify-file-merging-mechanism-for-checkpoints-experimental)

## Compaction of Small SST Files

> In some cases, the number of files produced by the RocksDB state backend grows indefinitely. In addition to the overhead caused by many small files,

Reviewer 7: NIT: an example around how RocksDB state backend grows indefinitely would be good here.

this behavior can cause the task state info to exceed the RPC message size limit and therefore lead to recovery or checkpoint failures.

From release 1.20 on, Flink can merge such files in the background using the RocksDB API.

**More Information**
* [FLINK-26050](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-26050)

## Reorganizing all State & Checkpointing Configuration Options

In Flink 1.20, all the options about state and checkpointing are reorganized and categorized by prefixes as listed below:
1. `execution.checkpointing.*`: all configuration options associated with checkpointing and savepoints.
2. `execution.state-recovery.*`: all configuration options related to state recovery.
3. `state.*`: all configuration options related to the state accessing.
   a. `state.backend.*`: configuration options for individual state backends, such as RocksDB.
   b. `state.changelog.*`: configuration options for the state changelog, as outlined in FLIP-158, including the options for the "Durable Short-term Log" (DSTL).

>    c. `state.latency-track.*`: configuration options related to the latency tracking of state access.

Reviewer 8: I think there are more configuration related changes. Maybe we should add a dedicated section for that, rather than separating configuration changes into sections of each component.

> At the meantime, all the original options scattered everywhere are annotated as `@Deprecated`. For the detailed list of options,

Reviewer 7: NIT: I suggest removing "At the meantime,"

please refer to the documents below.

**More Information**
* [Checkpointing](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#checkpointing)
* [Recovery](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#recovery)
* [State Backend](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#state-backends)
* [State Changelog](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#state-changelog-options)
* [Latency-track](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#state-latency-tracking-options)

# Batch Processing Improvements

## Support Job Recovery from JobMaster Failures for Batch Jobs

In Flink 1.20, we introduced a batch job recovery mechanism to enable batch jobs to recover as much progress as possible 

> after a `JobMaster` failover, avoiding the need to rerun tasks that have already been finished.

Reviewer 7: NIT: been finished -> finished

# Important Configuration Changes for Flink 2.0

As Apache Flink progresses to version 2.0, several configuration options are being changed or deprecated to 
improve ease-of-use and maintainability.

## Using Proper Type for Configuration Options

Some configuration options like `client.heartbeat.interval` has been updated to the `Duration` type in a backward-compatible manner. 
The full list is available in [FLINK-35359](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35359).

The following configuration options have been updated to the `Enum` type in a backward-compatible manner:
- `taskmanager.network.compression.codec`
- `table.optimizer.agg-phase-strategy`

The following configuration options have been updated to the `Int` type in a backward-compatible manner:
- `yarn.application-attempts`

**More Information**
* [FLINK-35359](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35359)

## Deprecate Multiple Configuration Options

In preparation for the release of Flink 2.0, the community has decided to officially deprecate
multiple configuration options that were approaching end of life for a while.

> The following configuration options have been deprecated as we are phasing out the hash-based blocking shuffle:

Reviewer 7: I suggest mentioning the replacements for everything we are deprecating.

Reviewer 8: +1 for mentioning the replacements

- `taskmanager.network.netty.server.numThreads`
- `taskmanager.network.netty.client.numThreads`
- `taskmanager.network.netty.server.backlog`
- `taskmanager.network.netty.sendReceiveBufferSize`
- `taskmanager.network.netty.transport`

The following configuration options are unnecessary and have been deprecated:
- `taskmanager.network.max-num-tcp-connections`
- `fine-grained.shuffle-mode.all-blocking`

These options were previously used for fine-tuning TPC testing but are no longer needed by the current Flink planner:
- `table.exec.range-sort.enabled`
- `table.optimizer.rows-per-local-agg`
- `table.optimizer.join.null-filter-threshold`
- `table.optimizer.semi-anti-join.build-distinct.ndv-ratio`
- `table.optimizer.shuffle-by-partial-key-enabled`
- `table.optimizer.smj.remove-sort-enabled`
- `table.optimizer.cnf-nodes-limit`

These options were introduced for the now-obsolete `FilterableTableSource` interface:
- `table.optimizer.source.aggregate-pushdown-enabled`
- `table.optimizer.source.predicate-pushdown-enabled`

**More Information**
* [FLINK-35461](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35461)
* [FLINK-35473](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-35473)

> ## New and Updated Configuration Options

Reviewer 8: It is quite obvious that the configuration changes in this release notes are provided by multiple people, as they are presented in different format / layouts. Maybe we should make them more consistent, so that users see the release notes as a unified documentation provided by the flink community, instead simply throwing multiple pieces of text together.
